<span id="anchor"></span>SimpleSAMLphp - Funding Solicitation

<img
src="SimpleSAMLphp - Funding Solicitation.images/Pictures/1000020100000160000000F060E3FC362DE032EE.png"
style="width:2.4693in;height:1.6945in" />

<span id="anchor-1"></span>SimpleSAMLphp needs your help

With this solicitation we kindly ask your organisation to consider
supporting the SimpleSAMLphp (SSP) project. For many of you this
software product comprises a vital piece of your AAI infrastructure that
merits maintenance, care and attention. Sustaining SSP will help you to
continue to be able to use this software in a secure and trusted way,
and may lead to future features and capabilities for the benefit of your
organisation. While this solicitation focusses on financial
contributions, the project of course also very much welcomes structural
in-kind contributions from your organisation that would help sustain
SSP. If you have suggestions, please contact us also.

<span id="anchor-2"></span>Sustaining SimpleSAMLphp

In 2020, UNINETT announced a strong willingness and interest to continue
supporting the project financially, but indicated that internal
organizational shifts would make ongoing operational support and
maintenance of the SSP no longer viable. Several community
representatives stepped up in an effort to safeguard the future of the
SSP project.  

To provide the project with a new legal body, the project joined the the
Commons Conservancy<sup>[^1]</sup>. This provides SSP with a legal
status, the ability to raise funds and take care of other legal affairs
like for example to hire staff to work on the project. A board was
formed to govern the project in the conservancy..

Project governance and strategy is published \[in the project github
governance repository\]. To sustain and support this work, the board
aims to hire and sustain two roles:

- **Lead Maintainer** who manages the SSP project in close collaboration
  with the developer community, maintains and develops code as well as
  handes community contributions.
- **Lead Communications** who manages general communications and
  outreach on behalf of the SSP project, including the web presence
  (website, blog updates, use case stories, etc), organizes in-person
  and/or virtual SSP project meetings, including hackathons and
  gatherings at conferences and similar.

It is the opinion of the board that both roles need significant amounts
of time, and as such warrant dedicated resourcing. It is the intent of
the board to solicit the resources for these roles through an open and
transparent procedure.

<span id="anchor-3"></span>Funding Solicitation

With the aid of the Commons Conservancy, the SSP project already has
mechanisms in place to solicit funds and use those funds to hire
dedicated staff to support and extend the project. To allow the board to
fill the proposed positions, we are asking core users and members of the
community to contribute financially to the sustainability of the
SimpleSAMLphp project.

The board estimates that this effort requires an initial financial
backing of EUR 100.000 (1 FTE) on a yearly basis for both Lead
Maintainer and Lead Communications roles.

Additional short term engagements may be used for specific, not
continuously occurring tasks that typically are well (enough)
standardised to capture in a simple description of work or tasks
requiring specialised skills and knowledge we can not or do not want to
maintain in the Programme. Examples of such tasks are:

\- code security audits, crypto security audits

\- designing a new UI

\- creating promotional material

At this point we have already received very kind commitments to
contribute from UNINETT (NO) and Cirrus Identity (US), which have
allowed us to hire a developer for the Lead Maintainer role.

<span id="anchor-4"></span>Contribution agreements

We welcome contributions of any kind, both financial as well as in kind.

  
If you want to contribute financially, we kindly suggest the following
yearly contribution levels:

- Platinum - euro 30.00 and above
- Gold - euro 20.000
- Silver - euro 10.000
- Bronze - euro 5000 and below

Please know we can send formal invoices for this contribution agreement
if your organization so wishes. If you would like to contribute in kind,
please join the developer community.

<span id="anchor-5"></span>Background

The SimpleSAMLphp (SSP) project
([*https://simplesamphp.org*](https://simplesamphp.org)) was launched in
2008 by Andreas Ã…kre Solberg from UNINETT, the Norwegian National
Research and Education Network. The project provides a range of options
to support authentication with multiple protocols, support for
multilateral federation and proxied authentication services.  
  
The project has been offered as open source software from its beginnings
and over the years a broad community of at least 170 developers from
within the Research and Education (R&E), and beyond, has contributed to
the product, resulting in over 100 releases.

  
The SSP project is widely adopted and deployed around the world and is
an essential component in many R&E identity federations. In the global
eduGAIN interfederation for example, SSP is the second largest
deployment, in use with more than 1100 entities, making up for almost
14% of Identity providers and Service provider implementations.

<span id="anchor-6"></span>Contact

If you have the ability to contribute, please contact the SimpleSAMLphp
board at SSAML.board@commonsconservancy.org..

[^1]:  https://commonsconservancy.org/
